Interview No.01

User Profile
------------
Name: Cornel Anghel
Company: X2Mobile
Position: Marketing


1. During your search for an internship, what was the position you were interested in pursuing? 

My classmates and I were interested in website search engine optimisation because it was a technical and creative process which got much attention at the time in sales.

2. Describe the steps you had to follow to obtain your internship.

I asked my sister for a personal recommendation at her company, and she provided me with the opportunity to learn SEO with her manager.

3. When applying for an internship position, what do you think is the hardest step in the process?

In my opinion, deciding what skills you want to improve is a problematic step in the process.  

4. What is the most significant pain point related to your internship's selection process?

No applicable for my case, I received my internship position without passing an interview process. 

5. Did someone recommend you for this internship? Do you think his/hers recommendation played a crucial role in the selection process?

Yes, my sister recommended me at my request, and I am sure that it played a significant role in that particular process.

6. What is your opinion regarding the ways companies select their interns currently?

During an interview, my mind goes blank if I miss an answer to one question. I prefer a practical exercise rather than a technical issue, where the "right" answer is predefined. Companies should invest more into practical approaches. 

7. What's your opinion about the job posting websites and applications?

Those products are okay, even though I have not used them in a while.

8. Considering how many companies today are using artificial intelligence to filter their candidates, do you consider the concept ethical?

Depends on the AI's behaviour, if it discriminates based on race, gender or other aspects such as from where you got our degree, I think by making this automatisation you lose our focus on people as a company. It's a useful concept if used correctly.

9. What could be done to improve the process of selecting the right candidate for an internship?

I would standardise a final step in the selection process, dinner with someone who will manage your activity during your internship. 

