Interview No.01

User Profile
------------
Name: Andreea Stegerean
Company: X2Mobile
Position: iOS Developer


1. During your search for an internship, what was the position you were interested in pursuing? 

I applied for an internship position as iOS developer, in Cluj-Napoca.

2. Describe the steps you had to follow to obtain your internship.

I did not actively look for an internship position at the time; in my case, I spent nearly a day searching on social media and on a small website to find an internship position fitted with my abilities and interests. I sent my application after I saw an ad on Facebook.

3. When applying for an internship position, what do you think is the hardest step in the process?

Probably getting ready for an interview; those interviews tend to evaluate both your behaviour and your technical skills, depending on the company' size.

4. What is the most significant pain point related to your internship's selection process?

The waiting period from the time you ended your interview until you get a phone call from your interviewer because you are unsure of the success of your meeting. 

5. Did someone recommend you for this internship? Do you think his/hers recommendation played a crucial role in the selection process?

I  had zero personal recommendations.

6. What is your opinion regarding the ways companies select their interns currently?

I think it's a straightforward process, optimised for companies, not for interns; I think our focus should be placed on our interns, not on our time to deal with them. Companies should allocate more time to evaluate them and their performance. 

7. What's your opinion about the job posting websites and applications?

I think they are useful for people who are actively searching for a job; they play the role of our old newspapers and may provide you with great opportunities. I have almost zero experience with them because I applied for my internship directly on the company's website.

8. Considering how many companies today are using artificial intelligence to filter their candidates, do you consider the concept ethical?

No; I think the automatic systems are not optimised to detect talent or interesting candidates, only those people who match their selection checklist.

9. What could be done to improve the process of selecting the right candidate for an internship?

The process is well defined and standardised across multiple industries; it's difficult to improve or change the process at this stage, but I think if we improve without automatisation our human resources department, we will enhance the overall process. 
